## ERC721A

#### [Github](https://github.com/chiru-labs/ERC721A)

### Summary

ERC721A is an implementation of IERC71A with significant gas savings for minting multiple NFTs in a single transaction.

### Optimizations

`ERC721A` saves gas compared to [`ERC721Enumberable`](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721Enumerable.sol), which itself provides a mechanism for querying which token ids are owned by a given address. In a typical `ERC721` contract, it is only possible to query in the other direction using `ownerOf()`.

The `ERC721A` contract reduces the amount of storage necessary to enumerate token ids, based on an assumption of serially incremented token ids and by using packed data structures.

It also saves gas compared to standard `ERC721` contracts for batch minting, i.e. minting more than a single NFT. The gas savings for batch mints are primarily drawn from the fact that `ERC712A` does not set the owner for each token id. As token ids are serially minted, a batch mint of token ids from 7-10, for example, would set the owner of only token id 7, while 8, 9, 10 are implied. This reduces the number of storage writes, including only needing to write to ownership state only once for each batch, instead of once per minted NFT.

### Downside

Because each owner is not necessarily set for each token id, using `transfer` and `safeTransferFrom` does cost more than a typical `ERC721`. This is due to the fact that whenever the contract needs to do something with an NFT and it's not the first batch mint owned by the transferer, it must use a loop to scan through token ids and identify the owner of the batch.
